docs/about/overview.md, before:

---
title: Overview
---

Maestro hones fractured attention into focused intent. It is built for developers who need to coordinate multiple AI agents, repositories, and long-running tasks without leaving a keyboard-first workflow.

## Spec-Driven Workflow

Maestro enables a **specification-first approach** to AI-assisted development. Instead of ad-hoc prompting, you collaboratively build detailed specs with the AI, then execute them systematically:

1. PLAN
Discuss the feature with the AI agent.
2. SPECIFY
Create markdown docs with task checklists in the Auto Run folder.
3. EXECUTE
Auto Run executes tasks in a fresh session per task.
4. REFINE
Review results, update specs, and repeat.

**Why this works:**
- **Deliberate planning** — Conversation forces you to think through requirements before coding
- **Documented specs** — Your markdown files become living documentation
- **Clean execution** — Each task runs in isolation with no context bleed
- **Iterative refinement** — Review, adjust specs, re-run — specs evolve with your understanding

**Example workflow:**

1. **Plan**: In the AI Terminal, discuss your feature: *"I want to add user authentication with OAuth support"*
2. **Specify**: Ask the AI to help create a spec: *"Create a markdown checklist for implementing this feature"*
3. **Save**: Copy the spec to your Auto Run folder (or have the AI write it directly)
4. **Execute**: Switch to Auto Run tab, select the doc, click Run — Maestro handles the rest
5. **Review**: Check the History tab for results, refine specs as needed

This approach mirrors methodologies like [Spec-Kit](https://github.com/github/spec-kit), but with a graphical interface, real-time AI collaboration, and multi-agent parallelism.

## Key Concepts

| Concept | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| **Agent** | A workspace tied to a project directory and AI provider (Claude Code, Codex, or OpenCode). Contains one Command Terminal and one AI Terminal with full conversation history. |
| **Group** | Organizational container for agents. Group by project, client, or workflow. |
| **Group Chat** | Multi-agent conversation coordinated by a moderator. Ask questions across multiple agents and get synthesized answers. |
| **Git Worktree** | An isolated working directory linked to a separate branch. Worktree sub-agents appear nested under their parent in the session list and can create PRs. |
| **AI Terminal** | The conversation interface with your AI agent. Supports `@` file mentions, slash commands, and image attachments. |
| **Command Terminal** | A PTY shell session for running commands directly. Tab completion for files, git branches, and command history. |
| **Session Explorer** | Browse all past conversations for an agent. Star, rename, search, and resume any previous session. |
| **Auto Run** | Automated task runner that processes markdown checklists. Spawns fresh AI sessions per task. |
| **Playbook** | A saved Auto Run configuration with document order, options, and settings for repeatable batch workflows. |
| **History** | Timestamped log of all actions (user commands, AI responses, Auto Run completions) with session links. |
| **Remote Control** | Web interface for mobile access. Local network or remote via Cloudflare tunnel. |
| **CLI** | Headless command-line tool for scripting, automation, and CI/CD integration. |

Commit message:

docs: improve Mintlify documentation quality and consistency
- Fix logo/favicon paths (build/ → assets/) and copy icons to docs/assets/
- Add page-level metadata (description, icon) to all 19 documentation pages
- Fix broken numbered list formatting in about/overview.md
- Embed YouTube walkthrough videos in index.md
- Standardize terminology: Agent (Maestro workspace), Provider (Claude/Codex/OpenCode), Session/Tab (conversation)
- Update Key Concepts table with clear definitions
- Redistribute screenshots to relevant pages (git, keyboard shortcuts, general usage)
- Transform screenshots.md into Themes Gallery page
- Add git diff/logs screenshots to git-worktrees.md
- Add command palette screenshot to keyboard-shortcuts.md
- Add session management screenshot to general-usage.md

Claude ID: ad65a8b7-fc6f-4ebc-86be-ec86f66a0120
Maestro ID: b9bc0d08-5be2-4fdf-93cd-5618a8d53b35

docs/about/overview.md, after:

---
title: Overview
description: Learn about Maestro's spec-driven workflow for AI-assisted development with multiple agents.
icon: compass
---

Maestro hones fractured attention into focused intent. It is built for developers who need to coordinate multiple AI agents, repositories, and long-running tasks without leaving a keyboard-first workflow.

## Spec-Driven Workflow

Maestro enables a **specification-first approach** to AI-assisted development. Instead of ad-hoc prompting, you collaboratively build detailed specs with the AI, then execute them systematically:

1. **PLAN** — Discuss the feature with the AI agent
2. **SPECIFY** — Create markdown docs with task checklists in the Auto Run folder
3. **EXECUTE** — Auto Run works through tasks, spawning a fresh session per task
4. **REFINE** — Review results, update specs, and repeat

**Why this works:**
- **Deliberate planning** — Conversation forces you to think through requirements before coding
- **Documented specs** — Your markdown files become living documentation
- **Clean execution** — Each task runs in isolation with no context bleed
- **Iterative refinement** — Review, adjust specs, re-run — specs evolve with your understanding

**Example workflow:**

1. **Plan**: In the AI Terminal, discuss your feature: *"I want to add user authentication with OAuth support"*
2. **Specify**: Ask the AI to help create a spec: *"Create a markdown checklist for implementing this feature"*
3. **Save**: Copy the spec to your Auto Run folder (or have the AI write it directly)
4. **Execute**: Switch to Auto Run tab, select the doc, click Run — Maestro handles the rest
5. **Review**: Check the History tab for results, refine specs as needed

This approach mirrors methodologies like [Spec-Kit](https://github.com/github/spec-kit), but with a graphical interface, real-time AI collaboration, and multi-agent parallelism.

## Key Concepts

| Concept | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| **Agent** | A Maestro workspace tied to a project directory, backed by a provider (Claude Code, Codex, or OpenCode). Each agent has a Command Terminal and AI Terminal. |
| **Provider** | The underlying AI coding assistant (Claude Code, OpenAI Codex, or OpenCode) that powers an agent. |
| **Session / Tab** | A conversation with the AI provider. Sessions and tabs are 1:1 — each tab represents one session. Agents can have multiple tabs for parallel conversations. |
| **Group** | Organizational container for agents. Group by project, client, or workflow. |
| **Group Chat** | Multi-agent conversation coordinated by a moderator. Ask questions across multiple agents and get synthesized answers. |
| **Git Worktree** | An isolated working directory linked to a separate branch. Worktree sub-agents appear nested under their parent in the agent list and can create PRs. |
| **AI Terminal** | The conversation interface with your AI provider. Supports `@` file mentions, slash commands, and image attachments. |
| **Command Terminal** | A PTY shell for running commands directly. Tab completion for files, git branches, and command history. |
| **Session Explorer** | Browse all past sessions for an agent. Star, rename, search, and resume any previous conversation. |
| **Auto Run** | Automated task runner that processes markdown checklists. Spawns a fresh session per task. |
| **Playbook** | A saved Auto Run configuration with document order, options, and settings for repeatable batch workflows. |
| **History** | Timestamped log of all actions (user commands, AI responses, Auto Run completions) with session links. |
| **Remote Control** | Web interface for mobile access. Local network or remote via Cloudflare tunnel. |
| **CLI** | Headless command-line tool for scripting, automation, and CI/CD integration. |
