docs/configuration.md, before:

---
title: Configuration
description: Settings overview, updates, storage locations, and cross-device sync.
icon: gear
---

## Settings Overview

Open Settings with `Cmd+,` / `Ctrl+,` or via **Quick Actions** (`Cmd+K` / `Ctrl+K`) → "Open Settings".

Settings are organized into tabs:

| Tab | Contents |
|-----|----------|
| **General** | Font family and size, terminal width, log level and buffer, max output lines, shell configuration, input send behavior, default toggles (history, thinking), power management, updates, privacy, context warnings, usage stats, document graph, storage location |
| **Shortcuts** | Customize keyboard shortcuts (see [Keyboard Shortcuts](./keyboard-shortcuts)) |
| **Themes** | Dark, light, and vibe mode themes, custom theme builder with import/export |
| **Notifications** | OS notifications, audio feedback (text-to-speech), toast notification duration |
| **AI Commands** | View and edit slash commands, [Spec-Kit](./speckit-commands), and [OpenSpec](./openspec-commands) prompts |
| **SSH Hosts** | Configure remote hosts for [SSH agent execution](./ssh-remote-execution) |

## Checking for Updates

Maestro checks for updates automatically on startup (configurable in Settings → General → **Check for updates on startup**).

**To manually check for updates:**
- **Quick Actions:** `Cmd+K` / `Ctrl+K` → "Check for Updates"
- **Menu:** Click the hamburger menu (☰) → "Check for Updates"

When an update is available, you'll see:
- Current version and new version number
- Release notes summary
- **Download** button to get the latest release from GitHub
- Option to enable/disable automatic update checks

### Pre-release Channel (Beta Opt-in)

By default, Maestro only notifies you about stable releases. If you want to try new features before they're officially released, you can opt into the pre-release channel.

**To enable beta updates:**
1. Open **Settings** (`Cmd+,` / `Ctrl+,`) → **General** tab
2. Toggle **Include beta and release candidate updates** on

**What changes:**
- Update checks will include pre-release versions (e.g., `v0.11.1-rc`, `v0.12.0-beta`)
- You'll receive notifications for beta, release candidate (rc), and alpha releases
- The Update dialog will show all available pre-release versions

**Pre-release version types:**
| Suffix | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `-alpha` | Early development, may be unstable |
| `-beta` | Feature-complete but still testing |
| `-rc` | Release candidate, nearly ready for stable |
| `-dev` | Development builds |
| `-canary` | Cutting-edge nightly builds |

**Reverting to stable:** Toggle the setting off and download the latest stable release from GitHub. Pre-releases won't auto-downgrade to stable versions.

<Warning>
Pre-release versions may contain experimental features and bugs. Use at your own risk. If you encounter issues, you can always download the latest stable release from [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/pedramamini/maestro/releases).
</Warning>

## Notifications & Sound

Configure audio and visual notifications in **Settings** (`Cmd+,` / `Ctrl+,`) → **Notifications** tab.

### OS Notifications

Enable desktop notifications to be alerted when:
- An AI task completes
- A long-running command finishes
- The agent requires attention

**To enable:**
1. Toggle **Enable OS Notifications** on
2. Click **Test Notification** to verify it works

### Audio Feedback (Text-to-Speech)

Maestro can speak a brief summary when AI tasks complete using your system's text-to-speech.

**To configure:**
1. Toggle **Enable Audio Feedback** on
2. Set the **TTS Command** — the command that accepts text via stdin:
   - **macOS:** `say` (built-in)
   - **Linux:** `espeak` or `festival --tts`
   - **Windows:** Use a PowerShell script or third-party TTS tool
3. Click **Test** to hear a sample message
4. Click **Stop** to interrupt a running test

**Piped commands:** You can pipe through multiple commands, e.g., `cmd1 | cmd2`.

### Toast Notifications

In-app toast notifications appear in the corner when events occur. Configure how long they stay visible:

| Duration | Behavior |
|----------|----------|
| **Off** | Toasts are disabled entirely |
| **5s / 10s / 20s / 30s** | Toast disappears after the specified time |
| **Never** | Toast stays until manually dismissed |

### When Notifications Trigger

Notifications are sent when:
- An AI task completes (OS notification + optional TTS)
- A long-running command finishes (OS notification)
- The LLM analysis generates a feedback synopsis (TTS only, if configured)

## Sleep Prevention

Maestro can prevent your computer from sleeping while AI agents are actively working, ensuring long-running tasks complete without interruption.

**To enable:**
1. Open **Settings** (`Cmd+,` / `Ctrl+,`) → **General** tab
2. Scroll to the **Power** section
3. Toggle **Prevent sleep while working** on

### When Sleep Prevention Activates

Sleep prevention automatically activates when:
- Any session is **busy** (agent processing a request)
- **Auto Run** is active (batch processing tasks)
- **Group Chat** is in progress (moderator or agents responding)

When all activity stops, sleep prevention deactivates automatically.

### Platform Support

| Platform | Support Level | Notes |
|----------|---------------|-------|
| **macOS** | Full support | Equivalent to running `caffeinate`. Check Activity Monitor → View → Columns → "Preventing Sleep" to verify. |
| **Windows** | Full support | Uses `SetThreadExecutionState`. Verify with `powercfg /requests` in admin CMD. |
| **Linux** | Varies by desktop environment | Works on GNOME, KDE, XFCE via D-Bus. See notes below. |

### Linux Desktop Environment Notes

Sleep prevention on Linux uses standard freedesktop.org interfaces:
- **GNOME, KDE, XFCE**: Full support via D-Bus screen saver inhibition
- **Minimal window managers** (i3, sway, dwm, bspwm): May not work. These environments typically don't run a screen saver daemon.

**If sleep prevention doesn't work on Linux:**
1. Ensure `xdg-screensaver` is installed
2. Verify a D-Bus screen saver service is running
3. Some systems may need `gnome-screensaver`, `xscreensaver`, or equivalent

<Info>
On unsupported Linux configurations, the feature silently does nothing — your system will sleep normally according to its power settings.
</Info>

## Storage Location

Settings are stored in:

- **macOS**: `~/Library/Application Support/maestro/`
- **Windows**: `%APPDATA%/maestro/`
- **Linux**: `~/.config/maestro/`

## Cross-Device Sync (Beta)

Maestro can sync settings, sessions, and groups across multiple devices by storing them in a cloud-synced folder like iCloud Drive, Dropbox, or OneDrive.

**Setup:**

1. Open **Settings** (`Cmd+,` / `Ctrl+,`) → **General** tab
2. Scroll to **Storage Location**
3. Click **Choose Folder...** and select a synced folder:
   - **iCloud Drive**: `~/Library/Mobile Documents/com~apple~CloudDocs/Maestro`
   - **Dropbox**: `~/Dropbox/Maestro`
   - **OneDrive**: `~/OneDrive/Maestro`
4. Maestro will migrate your existing settings to the new location
5. Restart Maestro for changes to take effect
6. Repeat on your other devices, selecting the same synced folder

**What syncs:**
- Settings and preferences
- Session configurations
- Groups and organization
- Agent configurations
- Session origins and metadata

**What stays local:**
- Window size and position (device-specific)
- The bootstrap file that points to your sync location

**Important limitations:**
- **Single-device usage**: Only run Maestro on one device at a time. Running simultaneously on multiple devices can cause sync conflicts where the last write wins.
- **No conflict resolution**: If settings are modified on two devices before syncing completes, one set of changes will be lost.
- **Restart required**: Changes to storage location require an app restart to take effect.

To reset to the default location, click **Use Default** in the Storage Location settings.

Commit message:

feat(notifications): rename Audio Feedback to Custom Notification
Rename "Audio Feedback" → "Custom Notification" and "TTS Command" →
"Command Chain" to better reflect the flexible nature of this feature.
Users can chain commands together with pipes to mix and match
notification tools (TTS, logging, desktop notifications, etc.).

Closes #168

docs/configuration.md, after:

---
title: Configuration
description: Settings overview, updates, storage locations, and cross-device sync.
icon: gear
---

## Settings Overview

Open Settings with `Cmd+,` / `Ctrl+,` or via **Quick Actions** (`Cmd+K` / `Ctrl+K`) → "Open Settings".

Settings are organized into tabs:

| Tab | Contents |
|-----|----------|
| **General** | Font family and size, terminal width, log level and buffer, max output lines, shell configuration, input send behavior, default toggles (history, thinking), power management, updates, privacy, context warnings, usage stats, document graph, storage location |
| **Shortcuts** | Customize keyboard shortcuts (see [Keyboard Shortcuts](./keyboard-shortcuts)) |
| **Themes** | Dark, light, and vibe mode themes, custom theme builder with import/export |
| **Notifications** | OS notifications, audio feedback (text-to-speech), toast notification duration |
| **AI Commands** | View and edit slash commands, [Spec-Kit](./speckit-commands), and [OpenSpec](./openspec-commands) prompts |
| **SSH Hosts** | Configure remote hosts for [SSH agent execution](./ssh-remote-execution) |

## Checking for Updates

Maestro checks for updates automatically on startup (configurable in Settings → General → **Check for updates on startup**).

**To manually check for updates:**
- **Quick Actions:** `Cmd+K` / `Ctrl+K` → "Check for Updates"
- **Menu:** Click the hamburger menu (☰) → "Check for Updates"

When an update is available, you'll see:
- Current version and new version number
- Release notes summary
- **Download** button to get the latest release from GitHub
- Option to enable/disable automatic update checks

### Pre-release Channel (Beta Opt-in)

By default, Maestro only notifies you about stable releases. If you want to try new features before they're officially released, you can opt into the pre-release channel.

**To enable beta updates:**
1. Open **Settings** (`Cmd+,` / `Ctrl+,`) → **General** tab
2. Toggle **Include beta and release candidate updates** on

**What changes:**
- Update checks will include pre-release versions (e.g., `v0.11.1-rc`, `v0.12.0-beta`)
- You'll receive notifications for beta, release candidate (rc), and alpha releases
- The Update dialog will show all available pre-release versions

**Pre-release version types:**
| Suffix | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `-alpha` | Early development, may be unstable |
| `-beta` | Feature-complete but still testing |
| `-rc` | Release candidate, nearly ready for stable |
| `-dev` | Development builds |
| `-canary` | Cutting-edge nightly builds |

**Reverting to stable:** Toggle the setting off and download the latest stable release from GitHub. Pre-releases won't auto-downgrade to stable versions.

<Warning>
Pre-release versions may contain experimental features and bugs. Use at your own risk. If you encounter issues, you can always download the latest stable release from [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/pedramamini/maestro/releases).
</Warning>

## Notifications & Sound

Configure audio and visual notifications in **Settings** (`Cmd+,` / `Ctrl+,`) → **Notifications** tab.

### OS Notifications

Enable desktop notifications to be alerted when:
- An AI task completes
- A long-running command finishes
- The agent requires attention

**To enable:**
1. Toggle **Enable OS Notifications** on
2. Click **Test Notification** to verify it works

### Custom Notification

Execute a custom command when AI tasks complete. By default, this uses text-to-speech (TTS), but you can leverage any notification stack you prefer.

**To configure:**
1. Toggle **Enable Custom Notification** on
2. Set the **Command Chain** — the command(s) that accept text via stdin:
   - **TTS (default):** `say` (macOS), `espeak` or `festival --tts` (Linux)
   - **Windows:** Use a PowerShell script or third-party TTS tool
   - **Custom:** Any command or script that accepts stdin
3. Click **Test** to verify your command works
4. Click **Stop** to interrupt a running test

**Command chaining:** Chain multiple commands together using pipes to mix and match tools. Examples:
- `say` — speak aloud using macOS TTS
- `tee ~/log.txt | say` — log to a file AND speak aloud
- `notify-send "Maestro" && espeak` — show desktop notification and speak (Linux)

### Toast Notifications

In-app toast notifications appear in the corner when events occur. Configure how long they stay visible:

| Duration | Behavior |
|----------|----------|
| **Off** | Toasts are disabled entirely |
| **5s / 10s / 20s / 30s** | Toast disappears after the specified time |
| **Never** | Toast stays until manually dismissed |

### When Notifications Trigger

Notifications are sent when:
- An AI task completes (OS notification + optional custom notification)
- A long-running command finishes (OS notification)
- The LLM analysis generates a feedback synopsis (custom notification only, if configured)

## Sleep Prevention

Maestro can prevent your computer from sleeping while AI agents are actively working, ensuring long-running tasks complete without interruption.

**To enable:**
1. Open **Settings** (`Cmd+,` / `Ctrl+,`) → **General** tab
2. Scroll to the **Power** section
3. Toggle **Prevent sleep while working** on

### When Sleep Prevention Activates

Sleep prevention automatically activates when:
- Any session is **busy** (agent processing a request)
- **Auto Run** is active (batch processing tasks)
- **Group Chat** is in progress (moderator or agents responding)

When all activity stops, sleep prevention deactivates automatically.

### Platform Support

| Platform | Support Level | Notes |
|----------|---------------|-------|
| **macOS** | Full support | Equivalent to running `caffeinate`. Check Activity Monitor → View → Columns → "Preventing Sleep" to verify. |
| **Windows** | Full support | Uses `SetThreadExecutionState`. Verify with `powercfg /requests` in admin CMD. |
| **Linux** | Varies by desktop environment | Works on GNOME, KDE, XFCE via D-Bus. See notes below. |

### Linux Desktop Environment Notes

Sleep prevention on Linux uses standard freedesktop.org interfaces:
- **GNOME, KDE, XFCE**: Full support via D-Bus screen saver inhibition
- **Minimal window managers** (i3, sway, dwm, bspwm): May not work. These environments typically don't run a screen saver daemon.

**If sleep prevention doesn't work on Linux:**
1. Ensure `xdg-screensaver` is installed
2. Verify a D-Bus screen saver service is running
3. Some systems may need `gnome-screensaver`, `xscreensaver`, or equivalent

<Info>
On unsupported Linux configurations, the feature silently does nothing — your system will sleep normally according to its power settings.
</Info>

## Storage Location

Settings are stored in:

- **macOS**: `~/Library/Application Support/maestro/`
- **Windows**: `%APPDATA%/maestro/`
- **Linux**: `~/.config/maestro/`

## Cross-Device Sync (Beta)

Maestro can sync settings, sessions, and groups across multiple devices by storing them in a cloud-synced folder like iCloud Drive, Dropbox, or OneDrive.

**Setup:**

1. Open **Settings** (`Cmd+,` / `Ctrl+,`) → **General** tab
2. Scroll to **Storage Location**
3. Click **Choose Folder...** and select a synced folder:
   - **iCloud Drive**: `~/Library/Mobile Documents/com~apple~CloudDocs/Maestro`
   - **Dropbox**: `~/Dropbox/Maestro`
   - **OneDrive**: `~/OneDrive/Maestro`
4. Maestro will migrate your existing settings to the new location
5. Restart Maestro for changes to take effect
6. Repeat on your other devices, selecting the same synced folder

**What syncs:**
- Settings and preferences
- Session configurations
- Groups and organization
- Agent configurations
- Session origins and metadata

**What stays local:**
- Window size and position (device-specific)
- The bootstrap file that points to your sync location

**Important limitations:**
- **Single-device usage**: Only run Maestro on one device at a time. Running simultaneously on multiple devices can cause sync conflicts where the last write wins.
- **No conflict resolution**: If settings are modified on two devices before syncing completes, one set of changes will be lost.
- **Restart required**: Changes to storage location require an app restart to take effect.

To reset to the default location, click **Use Default** in the Storage Location settings.
