docs/remote-access.md, before:

---
title: Remote Access
---

Maestro includes a built-in web server for mobile remote control:

1. **Automatic Security**: Web server runs on a random port with an auto-generated security token embedded in the URL
2. **QR Code Access**: Scan a QR code to connect instantly from your phone
3. **Global Access**: All sessions are accessible when the web interface is enabled - the security token protects access
4. **Remote Tunneling**: Access Maestro from anywhere via Cloudflare tunnel (requires `cloudflared` CLI)

## Mobile Web Interface

The mobile web interface provides:
- Real-time session monitoring and command input
- Device color scheme preference support (light/dark mode)
- Connection status indicator with automatic reconnection
- Offline queue for commands typed while disconnected
- Swipe gestures for common actions
- Quick actions menu for the send button

## Local Access (Same Network)

1. Click the "OFFLINE" button in the header to enable the web interface
2. The button changes to "LIVE" and shows a QR code overlay
3. Scan the QR code or copy the secure URL to access from your phone on the same network

## Remote Access (Outside Your Network)

To access Maestro from outside your local network (e.g., on mobile data or from another location):

1. Install cloudflared: `brew install cloudflared` (macOS) or [download for other platforms](https://developers.cloudflare.com/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/downloads/)
2. Enable the web interface (OFFLINE → LIVE)
3. Toggle "Remote Access" in the Live overlay
4. A secure Cloudflare tunnel URL will be generated
5. Use the Local/Remote pill selector to switch between QR codes
6. The tunnel stays active as long as Maestro is running - no time limits, no account required

## Screenshots

![Mobile chat](./screenshots/mobile-chat.png)
![Mobile groups](./screenshots/mobile-groups.png)
![Mobile history](./screenshots/mobile-history.png)

Commit message:

docs: improve Mintlify documentation quality and consistency
- Fix logo/favicon paths (build/ → assets/) and copy icons to docs/assets/
- Add page-level metadata (description, icon) to all 19 documentation pages
- Fix broken numbered list formatting in about/overview.md
- Embed YouTube walkthrough videos in index.md
- Standardize terminology: Agent (Maestro workspace), Provider (Claude/Codex/OpenCode), Session/Tab (conversation)
- Update Key Concepts table with clear definitions
- Redistribute screenshots to relevant pages (git, keyboard shortcuts, general usage)
- Transform screenshots.md into Themes Gallery page
- Add git diff/logs screenshots to git-worktrees.md
- Add command palette screenshot to keyboard-shortcuts.md
- Add session management screenshot to general-usage.md

Claude ID: ad65a8b7-fc6f-4ebc-86be-ec86f66a0120
Maestro ID: b9bc0d08-5be2-4fdf-93cd-5618a8d53b35

docs/remote-access.md, after:

---
title: Remote Access
description: Control Maestro from your phone via the built-in web server and Cloudflare tunnels.
icon: wifi
---

Maestro includes a built-in web server for mobile remote control:

1. **Automatic Security**: Web server runs on a random port with an auto-generated security token embedded in the URL
2. **QR Code Access**: Scan a QR code to connect instantly from your phone
3. **Global Access**: All sessions are accessible when the web interface is enabled - the security token protects access
4. **Remote Tunneling**: Access Maestro from anywhere via Cloudflare tunnel (requires `cloudflared` CLI)

## Mobile Web Interface

The mobile web interface provides:
- Real-time session monitoring and command input
- Device color scheme preference support (light/dark mode)
- Connection status indicator with automatic reconnection
- Offline queue for commands typed while disconnected
- Swipe gestures for common actions
- Quick actions menu for the send button

## Local Access (Same Network)

1. Click the "OFFLINE" button in the header to enable the web interface
2. The button changes to "LIVE" and shows a QR code overlay
3. Scan the QR code or copy the secure URL to access from your phone on the same network

## Remote Access (Outside Your Network)

To access Maestro from outside your local network (e.g., on mobile data or from another location):

1. Install cloudflared: `brew install cloudflared` (macOS) or [download for other platforms](https://developers.cloudflare.com/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/downloads/)
2. Enable the web interface (OFFLINE → LIVE)
3. Toggle "Remote Access" in the Live overlay
4. A secure Cloudflare tunnel URL will be generated
5. Use the Local/Remote pill selector to switch between QR codes
6. The tunnel stays active as long as Maestro is running - no time limits, no account required

## Screenshots

![Mobile chat](./screenshots/mobile-chat.png)
![Mobile groups](./screenshots/mobile-groups.png)
![Mobile history](./screenshots/mobile-history.png)
