docs/screenshots.md, before:

---
title: Themes Gallery
description: Preview Maestro's 12 beautiful themes including Dracula, Monokai, Nord, and more.
icon: palette
---

Maestro ships with 12 carefully crafted themes. Screenshots below show each theme in action.

For detailed theme specifications (colors, fonts, code block styles), see [THEMES.md](https://github.com/pedramamini/Maestro/blob/main/THEMES.md) on GitHub.

## Available Themes

![Themes](./screenshots/themes.png)

### Dark Themes
- **Dracula** — Classic purple-accented dark theme
- **Monokai** — Vibrant syntax highlighting on dark background
- **Nord** — Cool, bluish Arctic-inspired palette
- **Tokyo Night** — Soft neon on deep blue
- **One Dark Pro** — Atom-inspired dark theme
- **Pedurple** — Custom purple theme (shown in most screenshots)
- **GitHub Dark** — GitHub's official dark mode
- **Solarized Dark** — Ethan Schoonover's precision-designed dark variant

### Light Themes
- **GitHub Light** — GitHub's clean light mode
- **Solarized Light** — Precision-designed light variant
- **Quiet Light** — Soft, muted light theme
- **Atom One Light** — Light variant of Atom's One theme

## Changing Themes

1. Press `Cmd+K` (Mac) or `Ctrl+K` (Windows/Linux)
2. Type "theme" and select **Change Theme**
3. Use arrow keys to preview themes live
4. Press `Enter` to apply

Or go to **Settings** (`Cmd+,`) → **Appearance** → **Theme**.

Commit message:

OAuth enabled but no valid token found. Starting authentication... Found expired OAuth token, attempting refresh... Token refresh successful ## CHANGES
- Revamped README with power features, screenshots, and crisp quick-start flow 🚀
- Added prominent User Docs badge linking to full documentation hub 📚
- Documented Auto Run playbooks for batch checklist execution and history tracking ✅
- Highlighted Git worktrees for parallel agents on isolated branches instantly 🌿
- Showcased Group Chat with moderator AI for coordinated multi-agent discussions 🗣️
- Introduced Remote Access docs for phone control via QR and tunnels 📱
- Documented `maestro-cli` for headless automation with JSONL scripting support 🧰
- Polished Achievement Card visuals: real GitHub logo and brighter trophies 🏆
- Improved Auto Run summaries by avoiding filename-extension sentence splitting ✍️
- Build and dev tweaks: disable npm rebuild and stop watching without HMR 🛠️

docs/screenshots.md, after:

---
title: Themes Gallery
description: Preview Maestro's 12 beautiful themes including Dracula, Monokai, Nord, and more.
icon: palette
---

Maestro ships with 12 carefully crafted themes. Screenshots below show each theme in action.

## Available Themes
For a screenshot example of every option, see [THEMES.md](https://github.com/pedramamini/Maestro/blob/main/THEMES.md) on GitHub. You can also flip through the available themes at [RunMaestro.ai](https://runmaestro.ai).

![Themes](./screenshots/themes.png)

### Dark Themes
- **Dracula** — Classic purple-accented dark theme
- **Monokai** — Vibrant syntax highlighting on dark background
- **Nord** — Cool, bluish Arctic-inspired palette
- **Tokyo Night** — Soft neon on deep blue
- **One Dark Pro** — Atom-inspired dark theme
- **Pedurple** — Custom purple theme (shown in most screenshots)
- **GitHub Dark** — GitHub's official dark mode
- **Solarized Dark** — Ethan Schoonover's precision-designed dark variant

### Light Themes
- **GitHub Light** — GitHub's clean light mode
- **Solarized Light** — Precision-designed light variant
- **Quiet Light** — Soft, muted light theme
- **Atom One Light** — Light variant of Atom's One theme

## Changing Themes

1. Press `Cmd+K` (Mac) or `Ctrl+K` (Windows/Linux)
2. Type "theme" and select **Change Theme**
3. Use arrow keys to preview themes live
4. Press `Enter` to apply

Or go to **Settings** (`Cmd+,`) → **Appearance** → **Theme**.
