docs/symphony.md, before:

---
title: Maestro Symphony
description: Contribute to open source projects by donating AI tokens through Maestro Symphony.
icon: music
---

Maestro Symphony is a community-driven program that connects Maestro users with open source repository maintainers seeking contributions. Think of it like distributed computing for AI-assisted development — instead of donating CPU cycles, users donate LLM tokens to advance open source.

## How It Works

### For Contributors

1. **Browse available projects** directly within Maestro
2. **Select a GitHub issue** that matches your interests
3. **Create a dedicated agent session** — choose your AI provider and model
4. **Single-click contribution** — Maestro clones the repo, runs Auto Run docs, and creates a PR

![Maestro Symphony Projects](./screenshots/symphony-list.png)

### For Repository Owners

1. **Define contribution opportunities** as Auto Run documents in your repository
2. **Open a GitHub issue** listing the document paths
3. **Add the `runmaestro.ai` label** to make it visible to the Maestro community
4. **Receive quality pull requests** generated by AI-assisted workflows

## Opening Symphony

| Method | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `Cmd+Shift+Y` / `Ctrl+Shift+Y` | Keyboard shortcut |
| Quick Actions → "Maestro Symphony" | Command palette (`Cmd+K`) |
| Hamburger Menu → "Maestro Symphony" | Menu item |

## Browsing Projects

The Symphony modal shows registered open source projects in a tiled grid:

- **Category filters** — Filter by AI/ML, Developer Tools, etc.
- **Search** — Find projects by name or description
- **Project tiles** — Click to view available issues

![Symphony Project Details](./screenshots/symphony-details.png)

Select a repository to see its available GitHub issues. Each issue shows:
- Issue title and number
- Number of Auto Run documents to process
- Document previews (expandable)

## Starting a Contribution

Click **Start Symphony** on an available issue to open the agent creation dialog:

![Create Agent Session](./screenshots/symphony-create-agent.png)

Configure your contribution:
- **AI Provider** — Choose Claude Code, Codex, OpenCode, etc.
- **Session Name** — Pre-filled as "Symphony: owner/repo #123"
- **Working Directory** — Where the repository will be cloned

Click **Create Agent** and Maestro will:

1. Clone the repository to `~/Maestro-Symphony/{owner}-{repo}/`
2. Create a new branch for your contribution
3. Open a draft PR (claims the issue so others know it's in progress)
4. Copy the Auto Run documents to your session
5. Begin processing tasks automatically

## Tracking Contributions

### Active Tab

View your in-progress Symphony sessions:
- Links to jump to the agent session
- Progress indicators for current document
- Links to draft PRs
- Cancel/abort controls

### History Tab

Review completed contributions:
- PR links with merge status
- Per-contribution statistics
- Time and tokens spent

### Stats Tab

Track your overall impact:
- Total contributions and merged PRs
- Tokens donated and estimated cost
- Issues resolved and repositories contributed to
- Streak tracking and achievement badges

## Session Integration

Symphony sessions appear in the Left Bar like any other session:
- Named "Symphony: owner/repo #123"
- Optionally grouped under a "Symphony" group
- Full access to AI Terminal, Command Terminal, and Auto Run controls

You can interact with Symphony sessions just like regular sessions — pause Auto Run, make manual edits, or switch to the Command Terminal for custom commands.

## Creating Symphony-Ready Issues

Repository owners create issues with the `runmaestro.ai` label:

```markdown
## Add unit tests for auth module

We need comprehensive test coverage for the authentication module.

### Auto Run Documents
- `docs/symphony/auth-tests-1.md`
- `docs/symphony/auth-tests-2.md`
- `docs/symphony/auth-tests-3.md`

### Context
The auth module is at `src/auth/index.ts`. Tests should use Jest.
```

Each document path should point to an Auto Run-compatible markdown file with task checkboxes.

## Task Claiming

When you click **Start Symphony**, Maestro immediately creates a draft PR. This claims the task so other contributors know it's being worked on:

- **No draft PR** → Task is available
- **Draft PR exists** → Task is in progress

First to create a draft PR wins — this prevents duplicate work.

## Registering Your Project

To add your open source project to Symphony:

1. Fork the [Maestro repository](https://github.com/pedramamini/Maestro)
2. Add your project to `symphony-registry.json`
3. Submit a pull request

Your project entry should include:
```json
{
  "slug": "owner/repo",
  "name": "Project Name",
  "description": "Brief description",
  "url": "https://github.com/owner/repo",
  "category": "developer-tools",
  "tags": ["tag1", "tag2"],
  "maintainer": {
    "name": "Your Name",
    "url": "https://github.com/yourusername"
  },
  "isActive": true
}
```

---

**Maestro Symphony — Advancing open source, together.**

Commit message:

## CHANGES
- Added multi-document Auto Run progress fields across IPC and WebSocket state 📚
- Web clients now receive aggregated task totals and completions across documents 📈
- Active tab UI docs expanded with screenshot and richer contribution details 🖼️
- Canonical `activeTab` lookup is now memoized to kill repeated O(n) finds ⚡
- Staged images, logs, and prompt tab toggles now reuse memoized `activeTab` 🧠
- Tab-completion suggestions now debounce input only while menu is open ⌨️
- @mention suggestions now debounce filter only while menu is open 🔎
- Disabling worktrees now removes all sub-agents and reports counts 🧹
- Added performance guidance: debounce, throttle, batching, virtualization, parallel IPC 🚀
- Bumped version to 0.14.5 for this release tag 🏷️

docs/symphony.md, after:

---
title: Maestro Symphony
description: Contribute to open source projects by donating AI tokens through Maestro Symphony.
icon: music
---

Maestro Symphony is a community-driven program that connects Maestro users with open source repository maintainers seeking contributions. Think of it like distributed computing for AI-assisted development — instead of donating CPU cycles, users donate LLM tokens to advance open source.

## How It Works

### For Contributors

1. **Browse available projects** directly within Maestro
2. **Select a GitHub issue** that matches your interests
3. **Create a dedicated agent session** — choose your AI provider and model
4. **Single-click contribution** — Maestro clones the repo, runs Auto Run docs, and creates a PR

![Maestro Symphony Projects](./screenshots/symphony-list.png)

### For Repository Owners

1. **Define contribution opportunities** as Auto Run documents in your repository
2. **Open a GitHub issue** listing the document paths
3. **Add the `runmaestro.ai` label** to make it visible to the Maestro community
4. **Receive quality pull requests** generated by AI-assisted workflows

## Opening Symphony

| Method | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `Cmd+Shift+Y` / `Ctrl+Shift+Y` | Keyboard shortcut |
| Quick Actions → "Maestro Symphony" | Command palette (`Cmd+K`) |
| Hamburger Menu → "Maestro Symphony" | Menu item |

## Browsing Projects

The Symphony modal shows registered open source projects in a tiled grid:

- **Category filters** — Filter by AI/ML, Developer Tools, etc.
- **Search** — Find projects by name or description
- **Project tiles** — Click to view available issues

![Symphony Project Details](./screenshots/symphony-details.png)

Select a repository to see its available GitHub issues. Each issue shows:
- Issue title and number
- Number of Auto Run documents to process
- Document previews (expandable)

## Starting a Contribution

Click **Start Symphony** on an available issue to open the agent creation dialog:

![Create Agent Session](./screenshots/symphony-create-agent.png)

Configure your contribution:
- **AI Provider** — Choose Claude Code, Codex, OpenCode, etc.
- **Session Name** — Pre-filled as "Symphony: owner/repo #123"
- **Working Directory** — Where the repository will be cloned

Click **Create Agent** and Maestro will:

1. Clone the repository to `~/Maestro-Symphony/{owner}-{repo}/`
2. Create a new branch for your contribution
3. Open a draft PR (claims the issue so others know it's in progress)
4. Copy the Auto Run documents to your session
5. Begin processing tasks automatically

## Tracking Contributions

### Active Tab

View your in-progress Symphony sessions:

![Active Contributions](./screenshots/symphony-active.png)

Each active contribution shows:
- **Issue title and repository** — The GitHub issue being worked on
- **Status badge** — Running, Paused, or Waiting
- **Document progress** — Current document and total count
- **Time elapsed** — How long the contribution has been running
- **Token usage** — Input/output tokens and estimated cost
- **Pause/Cancel controls** — Pause to review or cancel to abort

Click **Check PR Status** to verify your draft PR on GitHub.

### History Tab

Review completed contributions:
- PR links with merge status
- Per-contribution statistics
- Time and tokens spent

### Stats Tab

Track your overall impact:
- Total contributions and merged PRs
- Tokens donated and estimated cost
- Issues resolved and repositories contributed to
- Streak tracking and achievement badges

## Session Integration

Symphony sessions appear in the Left Bar like any other session:
- Named "Symphony: owner/repo #123"
- Optionally grouped under a "Symphony" group
- Full access to AI Terminal, Command Terminal, and Auto Run controls

You can interact with Symphony sessions just like regular sessions — pause Auto Run, make manual edits, or switch to the Command Terminal for custom commands.

## Creating Symphony-Ready Issues

Repository owners create issues with the `runmaestro.ai` label:

```markdown
## Add unit tests for auth module

We need comprehensive test coverage for the authentication module.

### Auto Run Documents
- `docs/symphony/auth-tests-1.md`
- `docs/symphony/auth-tests-2.md`
- `docs/symphony/auth-tests-3.md`

### Context
The auth module is at `src/auth/index.ts`. Tests should use Jest.
```

Each document path should point to an Auto Run-compatible markdown file with task checkboxes.

## Task Claiming

When you click **Start Symphony**, Maestro immediately creates a draft PR. This claims the task so other contributors know it's being worked on:

- **No draft PR** → Task is available
- **Draft PR exists** → Task is in progress

First to create a draft PR wins — this prevents duplicate work.

## Registering Your Project

To add your open source project to Symphony:

1. Fork the [Maestro repository](https://github.com/pedramamini/Maestro)
2. Add your project to `symphony-registry.json`
3. Submit a pull request

Your project entry should include:
```json
{
  "slug": "owner/repo",
  "name": "Project Name",
  "description": "Brief description",
  "url": "https://github.com/owner/repo",
  "category": "developer-tools",
  "tags": ["tag1", "tag2"],
  "maintainer": {
    "name": "Your Name",
    "url": "https://github.com/yourusername"
  },
  "isActive": true
}
```

---

**Maestro Symphony — Advancing open source, together.**
